Fog Sentences

24. THIRD PECULIARITY.—UNCERTAINTY OF ALL DATA.
Lastly, the great uncertainty of all data in War is a peculiar difficulty, because all action must, to a certain extent, be planned in a mere twilight, which in addition not unfrequently—like the effect of a fog or moonshine—gives to things exaggerated dimensions and an unnatural appearance.

Still more rarely has the weather any decisive influence, and it is mostly only by fogs that it plays a part.

Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog.

The fog was peopled with phantoms.

All around him in the mist they moved, drifting through the arches in lengthening lines, and vanished, while from the fog others rose up, swept past and were engulfed.

A sudden breeze stirred the fog.

It was a chilly, silent march through sodden meadows wreathed in fog.

Trent watched it, a sombre mass, now distinct, now vague, now blotted out in a puff of fog.

At the same moment a prolonged crackling broke out in the fog in front.

They were in the front at last, for all about them was movement and turmoil, while from the fog, close at hand, came cries and groans and crashing volleys.

He could even see the fog light up with a dull orange as the thunder shook the earth.

His head swam; the fog and smoke stupefied him.

Could see nothing in fog.

I can only trust in God and wait till the fog clears.

“Save me! save me!” he cried, and then looked round on the blanket of fog.

Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce.

Indeed they thought not of him; for soon the fog begin to melt away, and all was clear again.

On the water he is powerless except at night; even then he can only summon fog and storm and snow and his wolves.

That forest-dell, where Lowood lay, was the cradle of fog and fog-bred pestilence; which, quickening with the quickening spring, crept into the Orphan Asylum, breathed typhus through its crowded schoolroom and dormitory, and, ere May arrived, transformed the seminary into an hospital.

How different had this scene looked when I viewed it laid out beneath the iron sky of winter, stiffened in frost, shrouded with snow!—when mists as chill as death wandered to the impulse of east winds along those purple peaks, and rolled down “ing” and holm till they blended with the frozen fog of the beck!

My glazed eye wandered over the dim and misty landscape.

he said with relief, as though fixing upon one unshakable solidity in a world of fog,

Come in, or the fog will get into the house. 

Wreaths of white mist clung like ghostly sails to the yards.

The monotony became unbearable, and as the mist thickened, he felt afraid.

A cold rain began to fall, and the blurred street-lamps looked ghastly in the dripping mist.

And, all at once, the moon arose through the thin ghastly mist, and was crimson in color.

Was it my own excited imagination—or the misty influence of the atmosphere—or the uncertain twilight of the chamber—or the gray draperies which fell around her figure—that caused in it so vacillating and indistinct an outline?

Then I saw them dimly, colossal figures of grey, magnified by the mist.

On the other hand, estimates frequently exceed the correct range when made in a flickering light; against a dark background; against the sun; when the sky is overcast; during foggy weather; in the dusk; in woods; and against an enemy who is only partially visible.

Here the fog prevents the enemy from being discovered in time,​—​a battery from firing, or a report from reaching the general.

He always looks at everything from that point of view, and as friction and the fog of war, and their influence on human nature will always be the chief characteristic of real war as distinguished from theoretical war or war on paper, it is chiefly this habit or mode of thought which makes his writings of such great and permanent value. It is also a habit which we ought sedulously to cultivate in ourselves.

What good will it do when smoke, fog, darkness, long range, excitement, the lack of coolness, forbid clear sight?

On an element where man is but the sport of storms, the navy is required to lie in wait for the foe at the exact spot and moment, in spite of weather and seasons; to see him in spite of fogs and darkness.

Mists and fogs militate against observation by aircraft, and poor visibility interferes with the work of artillery.

Outside the fog of battle, with its absorbing interests and distractions, the commander can retain his sense of proportion[1] and can decide where and when he will make his final effort.

